Welcome to the section
12 challenge solution.
I'm in the section 12 workspace
in the ChallengeSolution project.
And before I forget, we're going
to write those two functions.
But right here on line 108, don't
forget to free up the storage.
Okay, I was going to get into the
functions and I knew I was probably
going to forget to mention this.
But remember, that function that we're
going to write, this function apply
all allocate storage from the heap.
When we're finished with
it, we need to release it.
So we want to say delete
square brackets results.
All right, perfect.
Now let's go write those functions.
First thing we'll do is we'll
write the print function.
The print function is
really easy to understand.
And here it is right here.
Okay, so what does print expect.
And here you can see a call to print.
Let me scroll up just a little
bit so you can see it right there.
Here you can see a call to
print right here on line 97.
You can see what's happening.
I'm calling print, and I'm passing
in an array, right, which is the
address of an integer in this case
that just happens to be the first
integer in this array right here.
And I'm passing in array1 size,
which is a constant defined to 5.
Now this function expects a
constant pointer pointing to a
constant, so I can't change the
pointer, and I can't change what
it's pointing to in this case.
So any mistakes I make in here,
I want caught because I have no
plans I'm changing anything here.
I'm not modifying the pointer
or what it points to,
and I'm passing in the size.
So what am I doing here.
I'm just simply displaying that
square bracket, and then I'm just
using a real simple for loop.
There's my I.
That's my loop variable.
I'm starting at zero, and I'm
going again less than size.
Size in this case is 5.
So I'm going 0 1 2 3 4 and I stop.
And that's exactly how
that array is indexed.
At each iteration, I'm
just displaying arr sub-I.
Now right here, I'm using
pointer, subscript notation.
I could very easily have used
pointer offset notation, right,
which becomes arr plus I and
de-reference that guy, exactly the
same they both mean exactly the
same, so either one you could use.
Okay, so at this point,
I'm looping through there.
When i hit 5, I stop, and I've
displayed all those values here.
So this will display 1 2 3 4 5
and a square bracket and then a
new line at the end, and that'll
be the output you see from here.
Okay, so hopefully,
you got this function.
It's a pretty simple
function to write.
Most likely, if you had any
issues with this, it was probably
right in here, maybe you did an
I less than or equal to size and
you had an off by one error and
maybe you printed some garbage.
That's a very common error.
If you use the debugger that
probably helped you out.
Okay, so let me clear that.
Now let's go and write the main
function here, the apply all function.
Now in this case, this is how
I've defined this function.
We know it returns a pointer to an
integer, right, because it needs
to return the address of that
newly allocated space on the heap.
It expects array1, which is a
pointer to an integer and the
size of that array and array2,
which is a pointer to the other
array and the size of that array.
So that's what we're
passing into this function.
I've declared everything is conts
const, all these pointers that way I'm
not messing with pointers, and I'm not
messing with what they're pointing to.
I've got no business changing those
two arrays that are coming in.
I'm just building a third
array, which I'm returning.
So here is the third array.
It's called new array.
Right now, it's just a null
pointer and it's a pointer to
an integer, right, an address
of that first integer in that
new array that I want to create.
And this is me creating it right
here, new int, and this is going to
be 15 in this example because I'm
passing in a 5 and a 3 right here.
So I'm allocating 15
integers on the heap.
Right now, that's been allocated.
That all contains garbage right now.
And they're indexed from 0 to 14.
Okay, now I want to loop through
those arrays that were passed into me.
So that I can start doing
some of these calculations.
So let's do that right now.
First of all, I've got this
variable called position,
and position starts at 0, and
it's going to go from 0 to 14.
That's what I'm going to use to
index into my new array here.
But I've got those other two arrays.
I've got arr1, which was 1
2 3 4 and 5 in this example.
And I've got arr2,
which was 10 20 and 30.
Okay, so this is where we're at, and
obviously we have the sizes that were
passed in the 5 and the 3 as well.
So what do I want to do?
Well, I want to loop through
this array as the outer loop
because I want this to loop slow.
This is the one i want to loop
fast because I want to stay
at 10 and then go 1 2 3 4 5.
Then I want to go to the 20 and
go 1 2 3 4 5 and so forth, right.
So my I looping variable is going
to go from 0 to size 2, which is
0, 1 and 2 because that size 2 is 3.
And I want to increment I by 1.
And then I've got an inner loop,
so I've got a nested loop here
where my looping variable is J and
it's going to go less than size 1.
So we're dealing with 5 here.
And I'm incrementing
that by one at each time.
So look what's happening in
the body of the inner loop.
Okay, I'm setting the value.
And again, I'm using
pointer subscript notation.
I'm setting the value at
new array position, right.
Position right now is 0.
We set it right up here.
So I'm setting the value at that new
array position to be arr sub-J, right.
At the beginning, this will be 0
times arr sub-I, which is also 0.
So that's these two
guys, right, 10 and 1.
So when we first go through
here, the second arr2 is the one
that's looping slower, right.
So this guy's going to go 1 2 3 4 5.
This guy is going to go 10 10 10
10 10, he's not changing, right.
So what we're doing is we're
multiplying 10 times 1 and
putting it here, right.
Then we're incrementing position.
So now position is 1.
And then we're multiplying
10 times 2, we got our 20.
And we're going all
the way down to 50.
And along the way, we're
incrementing that position variable.
This is the position
variable right here.
Now we're done with the inner loop,
so we go back out to the outer loop.
And now instead of a 10 here,
we're going to grab the 20, right.
So this guy now refers to 20.
So we're going to do the same thing.
We're going to go 1 2 3 4 5,
and then 20 20 20 20 and 20.
And we're multiplying all of these,
storing the product right in here.
So we're going to get 20 40 60 80 100.
And along the way, 5 6 7 8 and 9.
We're incrementing
that position variable.
Okay, then obviously on the last
iteration of the loop, we're
dealing with 1 2 3 4 and 5, and
we're multiplying all of these
guys by that 30 right here.
So what we're doing here.
And then of course, this position
is being bumped up each time.
So that's what's pointing
into the new array, right.
So now here we've got 30 60 90
120 and I ran out of space but
there's a 150 there at the end.
At that point, that array
now has been allocated on the
heap and all those values have
been stored into the array.
I might clear this now and then all
I'm doing here is returning new array.
So it's returning the address of
that first element in the array.
Okay, now I'm back here now in
my main, and I just returned
that address right here.
So this pointer results is
pointing to that array that I
just erased, that big array of 15
integers from 0 to 14 on the heap.
It's got no name.
The only way I get to it is
through this results pointer.
Okay, simple as that.
Then I'm using a constant expression
here to basically calculate this
constant result size, which, in
this case, is going to be 15.
And I'm just passing results
and 15 to the print function
and it's going to print all
those values that we calculated.
So let's give this guy a run.
And there's the run.
You could see array1 is 1 2 3 4 5.
Array2 is 10 20 30.
And then the resulting array is 15
elements big, and it's a function of
applying that multiplication of one
array to another array and putting
the product in the third array.
Okay, simple as that.
If the debugger might have
helped you if you used it.
If not, it's just really a
matter of -- the only tricky
part here is this piece of code
right here the nested loop, and
this is just one way to do this.
You could have done this a lot
of other different ways, but this
is a really simple way to do it
because you keep that position,
you just keep bumping it up.
And it's going to go from 0 to
14, and it's as simple as that.
All right, so I hope you guys
were able to solve the challenge.
If you did it a different way and
you think it's more efficient or
pretty clever, let us all know.
That'd be awesome to learn.